The visualization created is that of a bubble chart representing the data in the World Economic Forum Global Competitiveness Report.

The size of each bubble represents population of that country.
Countries lying within the same regions are given the same color for its bubble. These colors are mentioned as legends for the graph.
The x-axis gives the GDP of the country for that year.
The y-axis gives the Global Competitive Index (GCI) of the country for that year.

Hovering over a bubble, gives the detailed data for each country like GDP, GCI and Population.
A slider below the bubble chart allows us to view the data for each year.
The ‘Play’ button enables the animation that shows the variation of each country with respect to the dimensions over the years. Thereby, automatically moving the slider.
The Drop Down allows us to choose a specific country for the below set of functionalities.
The ‘Trace’ button allows to visualize the journey of a country until 2017, making the bubble of every other country transparent. 
If we wish to view the journey of the country up to a particular year, all we have to do is move the slider from 2017 to the particular year, after the trace has been clicked.
An additional feature ‘Trace Play’, can be used to see an animated version of the Trace.
This helps in knowing the changes that were relevant to that particular country when comparing it with the dynamic data of every other country.

Selecting the country from selection/drop down creates a bar chart at the bottom displaying all the 12 pillars that contribute to Global Competitive Index. The slider can be used to traverse along the years to view data for country-year combination. 
Further, the country selection component allows selecting upto 2 countries for comparing pillars of GCI. This creates a grouped bar chart which follows the same color scheme as the bubble chart above, showing countries belonging to one region by a particular color as mentioned in the legend. This comparison can also be viewed across all years using the slider.

Please Note: For the multi variate visulisation, upon clicking on 2 countries in the drop down list, 2 countries get selected for the represenattions in the graph below.
If you see the alert 'Cannot select more than 2 countries' OR if we wish to change the countries selected, we will have to refresh the page.